---
title: 漫长的告别摘录
date: 2017-3-13 22:10:54
tags: 
- mark
categories: book 
visible: hide
---
## 漫长的告别   Raymond chandler

* 我不愿顾影自怜，也再无他人可爱。

* 我用一个诺言阻止它们四分五裂。

* 一天二十四小时，一些人在不断地逃遁，另外一些人在努力地追赶。

* 时间使一切都变得低劣平庸，满目疮痍，皱纹累累。人生的悲剧，霍华德，并非英年早逝，而是日益老去且日益下贱。

* 犯罪并非恶疾本身，而是恶疾的症状。

* 说一声再见，就是死去一点。

> “I like bars just after they open for the evening. When the air inside is still cool and clean and everything is shiny and the barkeep is giving himself that last look in the mirror to see if his tie is straight and his hair is smooth. I like the neat bottles on the bar back and the lovely shining glasses and the anticipation. I like to watch the man mix the first one of the evening and put it down on a crisp mat and put the little folded napkin beside it. I like to taste it slowly. The first quiet drink of the evening in a quiet bar—that’s wonderful.”


 > “Alcohol is like love,” he said. “The first kiss is magic, the second is intimate, the third is routine. After that you take the girl’s clothes off.”  
 
> “It’s excitement of a high order, but it’s an impure emotion—impure in the aesthetic sense. I’m not sneering at sex. It’s necessary and it doesn’t have to be ugly. But it always has to be managed. Making it glamorous is a billion-dollar industry and it costs every cent of it.”

> “But after a while the lushes will fill the place up and talk loud and laugh and the goddam women will start waving their hands and screwing up their faces and tinkling their goddam bracelets and making with the packaged charm which will later on in the evening have a slight but unmistakable odor of sweat.”

* Could be I’m fond of her too in a remote sort of way.

> “I’m a weak character, without guts or ambition. I caught the brass ring and it shocked me to find out it wasn’t gold. A guy like me has one big moment in his life, one perfect swing on the high trapeze. Then he spends the rest of his time trying not to fall off the sidewalk into the gutter.”

* I had got to him where it hurt.

* Why did I go into such detail? Because the charged atmosphere made every little thing stand out as a performance, a movement distinct and vastly important. It was one of those hypersensitive moments when all your automatic movements, however long established, however habitual, become separate acts of will. You are like a man learning to walk after polio. You take nothing for granted, absolutely nothing at all.

* There is nothing to fight against, nothing to be mad at.

* The life in a jail is in suspension, without purpose or meaning.

* I went out with him and closed the door. I closed it quietly as if on a room where someone had just died.